[MUSIC]
>> Brian Lonsdorf: I just wanted to tell
you guys, we're using a pattern from
Category Theory and Category Theory can
tell you a lot about your programs.
If you're composing them like this.
You don't need to know so much of that,
I'm not going to give you a test
on category theory later.
I just wanted you guys to know that
that's an important concept, and
if you learn it,
it's like learning more about add.
You're like I didn't know
multiplication distributed over it.
I don't need to know that to write my app,
but
it was cool to have it there,
so let's talk about this.
So, we basically built up apps like
Legos with functions combining
with functions and data combining with
functions and composing everything right.
Building new things from
simpler smaller things,
what about null checks or about callbacks?
What about error handling,
and side effects?
The list goes on,
I could probably list this like 50 things.
Things we have to deal
with every single day.
So we're going to reintroduce objects,
but not in the way you think of them.
So we're going to think of them as
containers or wrappers for values.
Like, we're gonna take a number or
a string or a whatever and
put it inside an object and
it's just gonna wrap that value.
So we'll see that,
we're not gonna have methods.
That sounds stupid but okay,
we're gonna have methods.
I'm lying but
think of it as not having methods and
we're not gonna think about these nouns.
We're not gonna have a user object,
we're not going to have a blog object.
We're going to have different kinds
of things that capture a behavior and
then number 4,
you will be making your own very often.
I'm going to say that now because
you probably won't for a while and
once you get into the heavier architecture
design stuff you can start doing this.
But, you can get very very far for
very long without ever having to define
your own functor or something like that.
So don't worry about
the implementation details or
how do I make my own functors,
just be like here's some standard ones and
they'll probably capture
everything I need anyway.
Okay, so Container, [LAUGH] this is a
convention I'm going to use throughout and
we've got this _Container,
that's an actual object.
And then I've got a helper function
that creates it by calling new.
And the whole point of that is
that we don't forget new and
two because container is
a composable function now.
It's just a constructor, so
I don't have to drop new in
the middle of a compose somehow.
I can just call a container as a function,
so dang that Jamaican
food was good you guys.
[LAUGH] Anyway down to the bottom so,
what I want you to see
is that container of 3.
That is literally what it is like you are
looking at a wrapper around the number 3.
There is no like function call to return
something crazy or it's not going as
a property of an object and then it's
gonna have different names for it stuff.
We're really just putting
container around 3 and
it's literally acting like
a wrapper container of it.
It takes a little bit to kind of get
used to looking at that literally not
in an object oriented sense, but
down to the bottom is what
you'd see kinda in the console.
Like we were assigning three to
an arbitrary property called val and
we get our actual container back but
the container 3 part is important.
Don't worry about the 3,
I just picked a random.
[LAUGH] Does anyone have any
questions about this part?
Online or our video froze, it's because I
blew the minds of too many
people with my container.
[LAUGH] Sorry, is everybody good?
I saw a lot of people who
didn't have object or
an experience in JavaScript and so
it may look a little foreign to you.
That the top thing is a constructor
function if you call it with new words it
really is just a constructor function and
then our object comes out, okay.
So we're gonna go into, all right, so
what if I capitalized flame thrower.
[LAUGH] And I get a capitalized
flame thrower, that's great.
I've got a function called capitalize,
I can use it all day long.
I've got all these little functions I've
made based on other little functions,
is it still frozen.?
Okay, cool, so
based on other little functions,
and I want to use those
functions everywhere.
They're like my main jam, and
the point is that, is this red?
>> Student: It locked up.
>> Brian Lonsdorf: Why did I do?
I hit it and my, all right when I said
main jam I was like [SOUND] [LAUGH].
So, but what if I try to capitalize
a container of a flamethrower?
It's not going to work, right?
Capitalize works on
a string not a container.
Functions don't take objects, they take
standard values usually or maybe this one
takes an object but obviously it doesn't
because it takes a string right above it.
So we want to capitalize or
flamethrower but
we can't when we put it in
a container that's a bummer.
Now you might be asking yourself why would
I put in a container that sounds crazy,
but we'll get to that just hang
with me for a few more slides.
We'll talk about why we're putting
flamethrower in a container,
why would you put your flamethrower.